---
layout: page
title: "Call For Workshops"
teaser: ""
header:
   image_fullwidth  : "airov-banner.svg"
permalink: "/workshop/"
---

The core of the Symposium consists of two 3-hour workshop sessions.
These sessions provide an ideal platform for the diverse needs of the
broad community that is jointly represented by the three organizing
associations. The workshops may be highly focused on a small,
specialized topic or may be more broadly oriented. In any case, we
particularly solicit **workshops of interest to two or all three of
the organizing associations**.

We invite researchers interested in organizing these workshops to
submit proposals. **Workshop organizers have the following
responsibilities:**

  * selecting and inviting speakers,
  * reviewing contributed workshop papers / posters and deciding about
    their acceptance,
  * fixing the workshop program and the detailed schedule of the workshop,
  * moderating the workshop session,
  * promoting the workshop in the relevant communities.

Workshop organizers take advantage of the fact that **the AIRoV
Symposium that takes care of the following services**:

  * publicizing the calls for papers for all accepted workshops,
  * CMS for the submission and review process of workshop contributions,
  * publication of the detailed schedules of all workshops,
  * joint poster session,
  * online publication of workshop proceedings.

All workshops must be open to all attendees of the Symposium subject
to the availability of space. A workshop cannot be held as a closed
meeting and cannot impose any other restrictions on the attendees.

## Goal of the AIRoV Workshops

The workshops of the AIRoV Symposium provide a cutting-edge venue for
presenting current work, discussion of work in progress, and future
directions. The workshops of the Austrian AIRoV Symposium seek to
**connect the local community**, provide an opportunity to invite
non-local researchers, and foster collaboration between different
research groups. The workshops should specifically motivate young
researchers to present and discuss their work and get to know the
local community. Workshops jointly organized with industrial partners
are welcome.

Workshop schedules should encourage **lively debates** and stimulate
the **production of new ideas** and the **discussion of controversial
issues**. Typically, this is fostered by planning short talks and
leaving substantial flexibility for discussions as they arise. The
workshops should be designed to attract a diverse audience from
different locations and should aim for a good balance between invited
speakers and contributions.

## Format of the AIRoV Workshops

For each single-session workshop, approximately **3 hours** of session
contents are expected. For a double-session workshop a total of
**6 hours** of session content is expected, split between the two days
of the symposium.

The structure of every workshop session is up to the organizers.
However, it is strongly recommended to fix a detailed schedule
indicating the sequence of oral presentations with title and
abstracts, and to leave room for discussions and/or a panel
discussion. It is up to the organizers whether they want to allow for
short spotlight presentations of otherwise poster-only contributions.

All workshops must accept contributions from the community and allow
one or both of the following formats:

  * Full Paper (8 pages, NeurIPS format), for original unpublished work
  * Extended Abstract (2–4 pages), for ongoing or partly published work 

It is at the discretion of the workshop organizers how many
contributions of each type they will accept, and which of the accepted
contributions are presented orally during the workshop. Every accepted
contribution *should* be presented as a poster during the joint poster
session. Every accepted contribution that is not presented orally
during the workshop (as a full presentation, not just spotlight)
*must* be presented as a poster.

The organizing and reviewing team of every workshop should nominate
one or in exceptional cases two contributed full papers for the
**AIRoV Best Paper Award**, together with a short review explaining
the novelty and relevance of that work and its significance for the
broader research community. The Symposium Organizers will then select
and award the three best papers among those and invite them for oral,
plenary presentation.

## Proposing an AIRoV workshop

A workshop proposal should specify the following elements:

  * team of 2–4 organizers form at least two different institutions,
  * title of the workshop and intended length (3h or 6h)
  * description of the workshop (½ to 1 page),
  * motivational text supporting the acceptance of the workshop,
  * additional confirmed reviewers, ideally from institutions other
    than the organizers',
  * planned invited speakers or panelists.

For each member of the organizing team, the workshop application
should include a short biography, up to 5 most relevant publications
for the topic, and a link to the Google Scholar profile and/or a
personal website. The organizing team should include at least one
senior researcher (PhD). At least one of the organizers should be
working in Austria or demonstrate strong ties to Austria. The team
should include members of at least two different institutions,
preferably from two different cities.

The motivational text should explain the importance of the topic for
the local community and explain the intended target audience, i.e.
from which other local or remote research groups the organizers expect
contributions or participants. Note that the symposium program will
only include the title, the description, and the names of the
organizers. The reviewers will be mentioned as part of the AIRoV PC.

Acceptance decisions of workshop proposals are made based on a balance
of the following criteria:

  * clarity of the topic;
  * relevance of the topic to the local community;
  * diversity and Inclusion, in all forms;
  * scientific qualification of the organizing team for the specific topic;
  * overall quality and soundness of the proposal.

Potential workshop topics include Machine Learning, Symbolic AI,
Robotics, Computer Vision, Neuroscience, Learning Theory, Deep
Learning, Reinforcement Learning, Generative Models, Large Language
Models, Certification of AI, Ethics and Fairness of AI, Speech &
Natural Language Processing, Emerging Applications of Machine
Learning, and Societal & Environmental Impacts of Artificial
Intelligence, as well as any other topic relevant to an appreciable
fraction of the ASAI, GMAR and OAGM community.

## Submission Instructions

Proposals should be submitted in PDF format via e-mail to
<mailto:chairs@airov.at> by **Thursday 2023-11-09**; see also the
[Important Dates](/#important-dates).
